MSGS

This is the original BSD MSGS program but modified to work with the
AT&T Personal Communications System (PCS) set of program tools.

= 1995, Dave Morano



= version 0e

1997-02-22, Dave Morano

1) Fixed a small (?) bug with the locking of the system BOUNDS file.

2) We now try to detect if the system "bounds" file is out-of-date
   with respect to the actual message files present in the
   spool directory.  Specifically, if :

   a) the directory modification time is later than the
      "bounds" file modification time, it is out-of-date

   b) if the first message file in the bounds file is not present
      in the directory, then the bounds file is out-of-date

   If a "bounds" file is found to be out-of-date, it is rebuilt.

   Note that currently in the code, the upper system bound is
   NEVER lowered.  This is presumably done so that a user will
   never accidentally skip any messages by reading previous
   ones that are then deleted and new ones added to the system
   with the same message numbers of the previous messages (that 
   the user already read).  This behavior seems reasonable.


= version 0f

1998-05-08, Dave Morano

1) Added a program invocation argument option where the name of the
   messages spool directory can be given.

2) Added some reverse line feeds so that the body of messages
   appears just after its corresponding headers rather than after
   the input prompt text.


= version 0g

1998-05-25, Dave Morano

1) I was too aggressive with the version '0e' above.
   I made the check against whether the first message file is in the
   spool directory or not a compile time switch, which is turned OFF by
   default.  This check caused the system "bounds" file to be rebuilt
   every time when there are NO messages in the spool directory at
   all.


= version 0h

1999-07-10, Dave Morano

1) The program now optionally creates a PCS style 'users' file.

2) I got rid of the annoying relocation log messages when nothing
   actually got relocated!



