 
"The real truth of the matter is, as you and I know, that a financial
element in the large centers has owned the government of the U.S.
since the days of Andrew Jackson." 
		-- Franklin Delano Roosevelt
 
"My vision of a New World Order foresees a United Nations with a
revitalized peacekeeping function." 
		-- George Bush
 
"We are going to impose OUR AGENDA on the coverage by dealing with
issues and subjects that WE choose to deal with." 
		-- Richard M. Cohan (Senior Producer of CBS political news)
 
"Our job is to give people not what they want, but what WE decide they
ought to have." 
		-- Richard Salant (former President of CBS News)
 
"News reporters are certainly liberal (socialists) and left of
center." 
		-- Walter Cronkite
 
"Soon it will be possible to assert almost continuous surveillance
over every citizen and maintain up-to-date complete files containing
even the most personal information about the citizen.  These files will
be subject to instantaneous retrieval by the authorities." 
		-- Zbignew Brezhinsky (National Security Advisor,
		Carter Administration, Executive Director of the
		Trilateral Commission)
 
"History shows that all conquerors who have allowed their subjected
peoples to carry arms have prepared their own fall." 
		-- Adolph Hitler
 
"This year will go down in history.  For the first time, a civilized
nation has full gun registration !  Our streets will be safer, our
police more efficient, and the world will follow our lead into the
future." 
		-- Adolph Hitler
 
"And we should -- then every community in the country could then start
doing major weapon sweeps and then destroying the weapons, not selling
them." 
		-- Pres. Bill Clinton (on the subject of gun control)
 
"And so a lot of people say there's too much personal freedom.  When
personal freedom's being abused, you have to move to limit it." 
		-- Bill Clinton (1994/03/22)
 
"... one of the basic conditions for the victory of socialism is the
arming of the workers, and the disarming of the bourgeoisie [middle
class]." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"The Trilateral Commission is international ... [and] ... is intended
to be the vehicle for multinational consolidation of the commercial and
banking interests by seizing control of the political government of the
United States.  The Trilateral Commission represents a skillful,
coordinated effort to seize control and consolidate the four centers of
power - POLITICAL, MONETARY, INTELLECTUAL, and ECCLESIASTICAL." 
		-- Barry Goldwater
 
"When we got organized as a country and we wrote a fairly radical
Constitution with a radical Bill of Rights, giving a radical amount of
individual freedom to Americans ..." 
		-- Bill Clinton
 
"The Council of Foreign Relations (CFR) is the American Branch of a
society which originated in England ... [and] ... believes national
boundaries should be obliterated and one-world rule established." 
		-- Carroll Quigley (Bill Clinton's Mentor)
 
"... a rate opportunity to move toward an historic period of
cooperation.  Out of these troubled times ... a new world order can
emerge." 
		-- George Bush
 
"It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our
banking and monetary system, for if they did, I BELIEVE THERE WOULD BE
A REVOLUTION BEFORE TOMORROW MORNING." 
		-- Henry Ford
 
"I believe that if the people of this nation fully understood what
congress has done to them over the last 49 years, they would move on
Washington; they would not wait for an election ... it adds up to a
preconceived plan to destroy the economic and social independence of
the United States." 
		-- George W. Malone (U.S. Senator-Nevada)
 
"The American people will never knowingly adopt Socialism.  But under
the name of "liberalism" they will adopt EVERY fragment of the
Socialist program, until one day America will be a Socialist nation,
without knowing how it happened." 
		-- Norman Thomas (Former Socialist Presidential Candidate)
 
"Fundamental, Bible believing people do not have the right to
indocrinate their children in their religious beliefs because we, the
state, are preparing them for the year 2000, when America will be part
of a one-world global society and their children will not fit in." 
		-- Peter Hoagland (Nebraska State Senator)
 
"All of us will ultimately by judged on the effort we have contributed
to building a NEW WORLD ORDER." 
		-- Robert Kennedy (1967)
 
"The main plank in the National Socialist program is to abolish the
liberalistic concept of the individual and the Marxist concept of
humanity and to substitute for them the folk community, rooted in the
soil and bound together by the bond of its common blood." 
		-- Adolph Hitler (quoted in "Hitler, A Study in
		Tyranny," by Alan Bullock, Harper Collins, NY)
 
"It is thus necessary that the individual should come to realize that
his own ego is of no importance in comparison with the existence of
his nation; that the position of the individual ego is conditioned
solely by the interests of the nation as a whole ... that above all
the unity of a nation's spirit and will are worth far more than the
freedom of the spirit and will of an individual. ... This state of
mind, which subordinates the interests of the ego to the conservation
of the community, is really the first premise for every truly human
culture ... we understand only the individual's capacity to make
sacrifices for the community, for his fellow man." 
		-- Adolph Hitler (1933)
 
"There is the great, silent, continuous struggle: the struggle between
the State and the Individual; between the State which demands and the
individual who attempts to evade such demands.  Because the individual,
left to himself, unless he be a saint or hero, always refuses to pay
taxes, obey laws, or go to war." 
		-- Benito Mussolini
 
"I am here because I want to redefine the meaning of citizenship in
America ...  If you're asked in school 'What does it mean to be a good
citizen ?', I want the answer to be, 'Well, to be a good citizen, you
have to obey the law, you've got to go to work or be in school, you've
got to pay your taxes and --- oh, yes, you have to serve ..." 
		-- Bill Clinton (at Volunteerism Summit)
 
"Fascist ethics begin ... with the acknowledgment that it is not the
individual who confers a meaning upon society, but it is, instead, the
existence of a human society which determines the human character of
the individual.  According to Fascism, a true, a great spiritual life
cannot take place unless the State has risen to a position of
pre-eminence in the world of man.  The curtailment of liberty thus
becomes justified at once, and this need of rising the State to its
rightful position." 
		-- Mario Palmieri ("The Philosophy of Fascism," 1936)
 
"We must stop thinking of the individual and start thinking about what
is best for society." 
		-- Hillary Clinton (1993)
 
"The smallest minority on earth is the individual.  Those who deny
individual rights cannot claim to be defenders of minorities." 
		-- Ayn Rand
 
"When will the world learn that a million men are of no importance
compared with one man ?" 
		-- Henry David Thoreau
 
"We must organize all labor, no matter how dirty and arduous it may be,
so that every [citizen] may regard himself as part of that great army
of free labor ...  The generation that is now fifteen years old ... must
arrange all their tasks of education in such a way that every day, and
in every city, the young people shall engage in the practical solution
of the problems of common labor, even the smallest, most simple kind."
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"Fascism finds it necessary, at the outset, to take away from the
ordinary human being what he has been taught and has grown to cherish
the most; personal liberty.  And it can be affirmed, without falling
into exaggeration, that a curtailment of personal liberty not only has
proved to be, but necessarily must be, a fundamental condition of the
triumph of Fascism." 
		-- Mario Palmeiri
 
"All the people I know who are driving for a form of national service,
primarily want it to be compulsory.  They realize that's a terrible
problem politically, so they're not willing to say it.  It is
endangerment of freedom and the potential for indoctrination that
skeptics do not like in the national service concept.  However benign
the program, some think it will not succeed on any meaningful scale
unless is is compulsory." 
		-- Martin Anderson (Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution)
 
"In his April 5 radio address outlining the goals of the summit, the
President [Clinton] endorsed compulsory volunteerism -- and even called for
extending it to middle schools.  In other words, the man who so famously
avoided the dangerous duty of fighting in Vietnam as a young man now
proposes drafting a new generation of young people to perform a
different set of difficult tasks." 
		-- New York Post (editorial, April 27, 1997)
 
"The great masses of the people will more easily fall victim to a great
lie than a small one." 
		-- Adolph Hitler (Mein Kampf)
 
"Corrupt the young, get them away from religion.  Get them interested in
sex.  Make them superficial, destroy their ruggedness.  Get control of all
means of publicity and thereby: Get the peoples' mind off their
government by focusing their attention on athletics, sexy books and
plays, and other trivialities.  Divide the people into hostile groups by
constantly harping on controversial matters of no importance.  Destroy
the peoples' faith in their natural leaders by holding up the latter to
ridicule, contempt and obloquy.  Always preach true democracy but seize
power as fast and as ruthlessly as possible.  Encourage government
extravagance, destroy its credit, produce fear with rising prices,
inflation and general discontent.  Foment unnecessary strikes in vital
industries, encourage civil disorders and foster a soft and lenient
attitude on the part of government towards such disorders.  By specious
argument cause the breakdown of the old moral virtues: honesty,
sobriety, continence, faith in the pledged word, ruggedness.  Cause the
registration of all firearms on some pretext, with the view of
confiscating them and leaving the population defenseless." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"The abandonment of the gold standard made it possible for the welfare
statists to use the banking system as a means to an unlimited expansion
of credit ...  In the absence of the gold standard, there is no way to
protect savings from confiscation through inflation.  There is no safe
store of value ...  Deficit spending is simply a scheme for the
"hidden" confiscation of wealth ...  [Gold] stands as a protector of
property rights." 
		-- Alan Greenspan (1996)
 
"... the only hope for the world is to make sure there is not another
United States: We can't let other countries have the same number of
cars, the amount of industrialization, we have in the U.S.  We have to
stop these Third World countries right where they are.  And it is
important to the rest of the world to make sure that they don't suffer
economically by virtue of our stopping them." - Michael Oppenheimer
(Environmental Defense Fund)

"Human beings, as a species, have no more value than slugs." 
		-- John Davis (editor of "Earth First!," Journal)
 
"The urge to save humanity is almost always a false front for the urge
to rule." 
		-- H. L. Mencken
 
"Cannibalism is a 'radical but realistic solution to the problem of
overpopulation.'" 
		-- Lyall Watson (The Financial Times, 15 July 1995)
 
"'Protecting the Environment' is a ruse.  The goal is the political and
economic subjugation of most men by the few, under the guise of
preserving nature." 
		-- J. H. Robbins
 
"Global Sustainability requires: "the deliberate quest of poverty ...
reduced resource consumption ... and set levels of mortality control."
		-- Professor Maurice King
 
"The Environmentalist's Dream is an Egalitarian Society based on:
rejection of economic growth, a smaller population, eating lower on the
food chain, consuming a lot less, and sharing a much lower level of
resources much more equally." 
		-- Aaron Wildavsky
 
"A global climate treaty must be implemented even if there is no
scientific evidence to back the greenhouse effect." 
		-- Richard Benedict (State Dept. employee working on
		assignment from the Conservation Foundation)
 
"Giving society cheap, abundant energy ... would be the equivalent of
giving an idiot child a machine gun." 
		-- Paul Ehrlich (Stanford University)
 
"Complex technology of any sort is an assault on human dignity.  It
would be little short of disastrous for us to discover the source of
clean, cheap, abundant energy, because of what we might do with it." 
		-- Amory Lovins (Rocky Mountain Institute)
 
"The secret to David McTaggart's (early officer in Greenpeace) success
is the secret to Greenpeace's success: It doesn't matter what is true
...  it only matters what people believe is true ...  You are what
the media define you to be.  [Greenpeace] became a myth, and a
myth-generating machine." 
		-- Paul Watson (co-founder of Greenpeace)
 
"We've got to ride the global warming issue.  Even if the theory of
global warming is wrong, we will be doing the right thing -- in terms
of economic policy and environmental policy." 
		-- Timothy Wirth (former U.S. Senator, D-Colorado)
 
"We must make this an insecure and inhospitable place for capitalists
and their projects ...  We must reclaim the roads and plowed land,
halt dam construction, tear down existing dams, free shackled rivers
and return to wilderness millions of tens of millions of acres of
presently settled land." - David Foreman ("Earth First !" Journal)

"...  There is no such thing in America as an independent press ...  We
are the tools and vassals for rich men behind the scenes ...  Our
talents, our possibilities and our lives are all the property of other
men.  We are intellectual prostitutes." 
		-- John Swinton (former New York Times Chief of Staff)
 
"...  The collective needs of non-human species must take precedence
over the needs and desires of humans." 
		-- Dr. Reed F. Noss (The Wildlands Project)
 
"... as radical environmentalists, we can see AIDS not as a problem,
but as a necessary solution." 
		-- Miss Ann Thropy (pseudonym) ("Earth First !" Journal)
 
"The extinction of the human species may not only be inevitable but a
good thing ...  This is not to say that the rise of human civilization
is insignificant, but there is no way of showing that it will be much
help to the world in the long run." 
		-- Economist editorial
 
"I suspect that the politicians and businessmen who are jumping on the
environment bandwagon don't have the slightest idea of what they are
getting into.  They are talking about emission control devices on
automobiles, while we are talking about bans on automobiles." 
		-- Dennis Hayes (Earth Day Agenda, 1970)
 
"The invention of the concept of sustainable human development and that
of so-called human security, as opposed to territorial security of
nation-states, and its promotion by the UN is in clear contradiction to
all that we, the Group of 77, and the UN Charter itself consider
inalienable, namely national sovereignty and security." 
		-- Pranab Mukherjee (India's Minister of Commerce,
		Earth Times, 15 October 1994)
 
"It's [the prospect of cheap fusion energy that is] the worst thing
that could happen to the planet." 
		-- Jeremy Rifkin
 
"The whole aim of practical politics is to keep the populace alarmed --
and hence clamorous to be led to safety -- by menacing it with an
endless series of hobgoblins, all of them imaginary." 
		-- H. L. Mencken
 
"If I were reincarnated, I would wish to be returned to Earth as a
killer virus to lower human population levels." 
		-- Prince Phillip (World Wildlife Fund)
 
"They want timid, helpless people who are anxious to get in touch with
their inner child, enter twelve-step programs, and run to the
government with every little problem." 
		-- Clark Stooksbury
 
"Isn't the only hope for the planet that the industrialized
civilizations collapse ?  Isn't it our responsibility to bring that
about ?" 
		-- Maurice Strong (Head of the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio
		de Janeiro)
 
"Christianity is our foe.  If animal rights is to succeed, we must
destroy the Judeo-Christian Religious tradition." 
		-- Peter Singer (the "Father of Animal Rights")
 
"In order to stabilize world population, we must eliminate 350,000 per
day." 
		-- Dr. Jacques Cousteau

"I suspect that eradicating small pox was wrong.  It played an important
part in balancing ecosystems." 
		-- John Davis (editor of "Earth First!" Journal)
 
"We reject the idea of private property." 
		-- Peter Berle (President of the National Audubon Society)
 
"The world has cancer, and the cancer is man." 
		-- A. Gregg (Mankind at the Turning Point)
 
"People are the cause of all the problems; we have too many of them; we
need to get rid of some of them, and this (ban of DDT) is as good a way
as any." 
		-- Charles Wurster (Environmental Defense Fund)
 
"This is a political game.  It has nothing to do with science.  It has
nothing to do with health and safety." 
		-- Sherry Neddick (Greenpeace)
 
"Destroy the family, and the society will collapse." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"You cannot move directly from capitalism to communism.  Socialism is a
necessary stepping stone to communism and hence all communists should
work for socialism." 
		-- John Strachey (former high official in the British
		Labor Party and also the British Communist Party)
 
"Regardless of all other attempts and plans, including military
conquest, if the New World Order and its world government are to
succeed with the necessary approval of the people of the world, there
had to be created a great cause of global dimensions; a cause great
enough to overshadow all racial, cultural, ethnic, religious, economic,
and monetary differences.  There had to be created 'a religious revival
to protect Mother Earth.'  There had to be problems that could be
expanded to crisis proportions, problems that involved not the
protection of the United States or of Mother Russia, but of Mother
Earth.  Therefore, the architects of the New World Order created three
major dangers, not to any nation, or nations in particular, but to
Mother Earth, which they call 'the planet that is the homeland to us
all, regardless of race, creed, or national origin.' ... Those dangers
upon which the global environmental crisis is based are: 
1) the greenhouse effect; 
2) the ozone hole; and 
3) toxic pollution. 
The media and the political left have taken these three global
environmental crises, presented them as a permanent crisis and a threat
to the 'global village,' which can only be remedied by 'global
cooperation.'  Therefore, global authority with the power to overrule
national governments must be established.  'A New World Order for a new
age of cooperation is needed,' the globalists say." 
		-- Don Bell (Reports, September 9, 1989)
 
"The message has now gone out to all leftists: 'SUBSTITUTE GREEN FOR
RED' -- that is, PUSH SOCIALISM LABELED AS ENVIRONMENTALISM AS THE NEW
PRIORITY." 
		-- David Horowitz and Peter Collier (in their book "The
		Destructive Generation")
 
"Let us also think about setting up within the framework of the United
Nations a center for emergency environmental assistance."
		-- Mikhail Gorbachev
 
"We will spit in their face [i.e., the faces of the Western capitalist
leaders] and they will call it dew." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"We will sell the Western businessmen the rope with which we will hang
them." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"The capitalists of the world and their governments, in the pursuit of
the conquest of the Soviet market, will close their eyes to the
indicated higher reality, and thus will turn into deaf, mute, blind
men.  They will extend credits in giving us the materials and technology
we lack.  They will restore our military industry, indispensible for our
future victorious attacks on our suppliers.  In other words, they will
labor for the preparation for their own suicide." 
		-- Vladimir Ilich Lenin
 
"War to the hilt between communism and capitalism is inevitable.  Today,
of course, we are not strong enough to attack.  Our time will come in
thirty to forty years.  To win, we shall need the element of surprise.
The bourgeoisie ... will have to put to sleep.  So we shall begin by
launching the most spectacular peace movement on record.  There will be
electrifying overtures and unheard of concessions.  The capitalist
countries, stupid and decadent, will rejoice to cooperate in their own
destruction.  They will leap at another chance to be friends.  As soon as
their guard is down, we will smash them with our clenched fist." 
		-- Dimitri Manuilski (of the Lenin School for Political
		Warfare)
 
"Comrades, do not be concerned about all you hear about glasnost and
perestroika and democracy in the coming years.  These are primarily for
outward consumption.  There will be no significant internal change
within the Soviet Union other than for cosmetic purposes.  Our purpose
is to disarm the Americans and let them fall asleep.  We want to
accomplish three things.  One, we want the Americans to withdraw
conventional forces from Europe.  Two, we want them to withdraw nuclear
forces from Europe.  Three, we want the Americans to stop proceeding
with the Strategic Defense Initiative."
		-- Mikhail Gorbachev (in a speech to the Soviet
		Politburo, November 1987)
 
"Our aim is to gain control of the two great treasure houses on which
the West depends: The energy treasure house of the Persian Gulf and
minerals treasure house of central and southern Africa, and then we
will dictate the terms of surrender to the United States and to the
West." 
		-- Leonid Brezhnev (1973)
 
"The people of South Africa, led by the South African Communist Party,
will destroy capitalist society and build in its place, socialism.  The
transition from capitalism to socialism and the liberation of the
working class cannot be affected by slow changes or by reforms, as
reactionaries and liberals often advise, but by revolution.  One must
therefore be a revolutionary, and not a reformist." 
		-- Nelson Mandela
 
"I have waited for long years personally to send my militan salute to
the land of the Soviets, to thank it for its fraternal solidarity.  The
Soviet Union is a torch bearer for all our hopes and aspirations.   We
have learned, and are continuing to learn, resilience and bravery from
the Soviet people." 
		-- Winnie Mandela
 
"We at the executive level here were active in either the OSS, the
State Department, or the European Economic Administration.  During those
times, and without exception, we operated under directions issued by
the White House.  We are continuing to be guided by just such
directives, the substance of which were to the effect that we should
make every effort to so alter life in the United States as to make
possible a comfortable merger with the Soviet Union." 
		-- H. Rowan Gaither (President of the Ford Foundation,
		1953)
 
"In politics, nothing happens by accident.  If it happens, you can bet
it was planned that way." 
		-- Franklin D. Roosevelt
 
"There also exists another alliance -- at first glance a strange one, a
surprising one -- but if you think about it, one which is well grounded
and easy to understand.  This is the alliance between our communist
leaders and your capitalists." 
		-- Alexander Solzhenitsyn
 
"There is a power so organized, so subtle, so watchful, so interlocked,
so complete, so persuasive that prudent men had better not speak above
their breath when they speak of it." 
		-- Woodrow Wilson
 
"Communism is one of the options that can improve people's lives." 
		-- Tom Hayden (ex-husband of Jane Fonda)
 
"I would think that, if you understand what communism was, you would
hope, you would pray on your knees that we would become communist." 
		-- Jane Fonda (to a Michigan State University audience
		in November, 1970)
 
"The money from my exercise videos goes to my husband's political
campaigns and to my socialist concerns." 
		-- Jane Fonda (February 1989)
 
"While we can't use the 'S' word [socialism] too effectively in
American politics, we have found the ... word 'Economic Democracy' sells.
You can take it door to door like Fuller Brushes, and the door will not
be slammed in your face." 
		-- Derek Shearer (1981 left-wing conference)
 
"Prediction is extremely difficult.  Especially about the future."
		-- Niels Bohr
 
"You are not thinking.  You are merely being logical."
		-- Neils Bohr (to Albert Einstein)
 
"Never express yourself more clearly than you are able to think."
		-- Neils Bohr
"The opposite of a correct statement is a false statement.  But the
opposite of a profound truth may well be another profound truth."
		-- Neils Bohr
 
"The people never give up their liberties but under some delusion."
		-- Edmund Burke
 
"The true danger is when liberty is nibbled away, for expedience, and
by parts." 
		-- Edmund Burke (letter, April 3, 1777, to the Sheriffs
		of Bristol)
 
"Nobody made a greater mistake than he who did nothing because he could
only do a little."
		-- Edmund Burke
 
"When bad men combine, the good must associate else they will fall one
by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle."
		-- Edmund Burke (1729-1797, English statesman)
 
"The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do
nothing." 
		-- Edmund Burke (1729-1797 -- English statesman)
 
"When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however
improbable, must be the truth."  
		--  A. Conan Doyle
 
"If we all did the things we are capable of doing, we would literally
astound ourselves." 
		-- Thomas A. Edison
 
"When you are in any contest, you should work as if there were -- to
the very last minute -- a chance to lose it.  This is battle, This is
politics, This is anything." 
		-- Dwight D. Eisenhower
 
"I know only two tunes: one of them is "Yankee Doodle" and the other one
isn't." 
		-- Ulysses S. Grant
 
"I would rather be exposed to the inconveniences attending too much
liberty than to those attending too small a degree of it." 
		-- Thomas Jefferson (to A. Stuart, 1791)
 
"Abortion is advocated only by persons who have themselves been born."
		-- Ronald Reagan
 
"I used to say that politics is the second oldest profession, and I have
come to know that it bears a gross similarity to the first."  
		-- Ronald Reagan
 
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable man
persists in trying to adapt the world to himself.  Therefore, all
progress depends on the unreasonable man." 
		-- George Bernard Shaw
 
"It is our duty to make the best of our misfortunes, and not to suffer
passion to interfere with our interest and public good." 
		-- George Washington
 
"Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder." 
		-- George Washington
 
"Associate yourself with men of good quality if you esteem your own
reputation, for 'tis better to be alone than in bad company." 
		-- George Washington
 
"I hope I shall possess firmness and virtue enough to maintain what I
consider the most enviable of all titles, the character of an honest
man."
		-- George Washington
 
"We ought not to look back unless it is to derive useful lessons from
past errors, and for the purpose of profiting by dear-brought
experience."
		-- George Washington
 
"There is no restraining men's tongues or pens when charged with a
little vanity."
		-- George Washington
 
"Be courteous to all, but intimate with few; and let those few be well
tried before you give them your confidence."
		-- George Washington
 
"The history of liberty is a history of of resistance.  The history of
liberty is a history of the limitation of governmental power, not the
increase of it." 
		-- President Woodrow Wilson
 
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty !" 
		-- Thomas Jefferson
