OKC -- WHAT REALLY DESTROYED THE BUILDING? -- PART 2

.DS
by Devvy Kidd
January 18, 2004
NewsWithViews
http://www.newswithviews.com/Devvy/kidd31.htm
.DE

McVeigh's Second Trial

"He continues to be affable," Chambers said. "He continues to be
rational in his discourse. He maintains his sense of humor." Nathan
Chambers, attorney for McVeigh, less than 24 hours before McVeigh's
execution

The cheerful death row prisoner

How odd that someone who is to die by way of a lethal cocktail would
be "upbeat," "affable" and "maintaining a sense of humor" less than 24
hours before his own execution. Yet, these are various adjectives used
by McVeigh's appellate attorneys describing Timothy McVeigh awaiting his
injection.

McVeigh had some other quirky behavior worth noting: He loved to sit
in his cell and watch cartoons. This wouldn't seem so odd for a child
or even a teenager, but McVeigh was 33 at the time of his execution.
McVeigh's outlook on the world was it would be an ideal place if based
on the Star Trek concept depicted in the TV series. As a witness for
the prosecution, Lori Fortier, went to great lengths to explain under
oath that the reason McVeigh chose the name "Robert Kling" for his fake
driver's license was because he loved to watch Star Trek and Kling was a
knock-off having to do with the "Klingons."

Star Wars, a hugely popular series of films by George Lucas, allegedly
was McVeigh's choice for justifying why he blew up the Murrah Building.
He also never went anywhere without the book, The Turner Diaries. The
similarities of McVeigh's behavior and that of the character, Jerry,
played by Mel Gibson in the movie, Conspiracy Theory (1997) is quite
startling.

In McVeigh's Second Trial, I pointed out a minor reference by a former
acquaintance from his home town that McVeigh told him the Army had
implanted a chip in his bottom. In McVeigh's Second Trial you will
read the factual transcript testimony from U.S. Senate hearings on the
MK-ULTRA mind control programs conducted by the CIA and FBI. Admiral
Turner provides some of the most chilling details of this horrific act
of immoral and illegal activity against unsuspecting Americans you'll
ever read.

One thing that does become obvious if you do enough research on this
subject: certain objects or phrases can trigger desired behavior
patterns that can be good or bad. Why did McVeigh just suddenly roll
over and say, "Fine, kill me, I feel real good about it?" Soldiers
don't give up, they fight to the end. If there was even the slightest
possibility that McVeigh wasn't in complete control of his faculties,
then a jury would have had to conclude that he was incapable of being an
active participant in his own defense. A subject of hypnosis, chemical
experimentation or one of these insidious mind control projects is as
incapable of defending themselves as would an infant.

Patrick Henry said, "We are apt to close our eyes against a painful
truth." Because McVeigh displayed such odd behavior, because he was so
sickened by the slaughter at Waco, which makes you wonder how he could
turn around and murder 168 Americans, and because there seemed to be a
question of whether or not McVeigh had a micro chip implanted in his
bottom, I filed a FOIA (Freedom of Information Act) request on May 22,
2002 for various documents including McVeigh's medical records.

The Army refused every step of the process so I filed suit in Federal
District Court on February 5, 2003. On August 19, 2003, I filed a Motion
for Summary Judgment which was countered by the Army. On September 26,
2003, I filed the appropriate response. It has been almost five months
since that filing and Judge Kennedy is still sitting on it; one wonders
when he will decide to hatch the egg? One thing is for certain: the
government doesn't want anyone to see McVeigh's medical records. The
only problem is, under the law, dead people have no privacy rights. Stay
tuned because I intend to fight this all the way to the top.

Ashcroft could hardly wait to execute McVeigh. Never mind the fact
that the feds had no jurisdiction to try him for murder (check the
Constitution), why this rush to execution?

Government witness testifies about blue and white drums

According to the government, the Ryder truck contained "weapons of mass
destruction," Allegedly, this 20' yellow Ryder truck had 13 plastic
"barrels" packed inside carrying the ingredients for the bomb. The
FBI analyzed two pieces of plastic: blue and white. This becomes a
critical issue: plastic barrels or containers inside the truck and trash
containers inside and around the Murrah Building.

At the same time McVeigh's "trial" was in progress, the government
tried desperately to counter a huge PR problem that cropped up: A very
courageous man by the named of Frederick Whitehurst who was employed by
the FBI at the time, became a federal whistle blower in a very big way.
This scandal about the gross incompetence of the FBI lab in Washington,
DC was dropped right smack in the public's eye during McVeigh's trial.
Too bad most American's weren't paying attention.

According to the OIG (Office of Inspector General) report, the FBI lab
boys have no idea if ANFO was used as "weapons of mass destruction in
the Murrah bombing." Here is just a tiny sample of "evidence" used to
send someone to death row:

In Section B: Oklahoma City bombing:

We conclude that it was inappropriate for Williams to render a
categorical opinion in his report that the main charge was ANFO.
As discussed with reference to the World Trade Center case, it is
inappropriate for a forensic Laboratory examiner to identify the main
charge based in whole or in part on prior knowledge of the explosive
components purchased by a defendant. Such an identification is not based
on scientific or technical grounds and appears to tailor the opinion to
evidence associated with the defendants.

"Moreover, Williams' report does not mention that the defendant's
purchases were the basis of the ANFO opinion. The report is presented
as an FBI Laboratory report. It begins with the phrase, Results of
examination: The reader is left with the impression that the opinions
presented are based on the scientific analyses of the FBI Laboratory.
Accordingly, Williams' opinion that the main charge was ANFO appears to
be based solely on his technical expertise as an explosives examiner
and thus appears to be very incriminating to someone (like defendant
Nichols) who allegedly purchased ANFO components before the Oklahoma
City explosion. The opinion is thus misleading and presents the case
in a way most incriminating to the defendants. Had Williams explicitly
stated in his report that the ANFO opinion was based on the defendant's
purchases, the opinion could have been appropriately discounted as a
non-expert conclusion that seeks to match the characteristics of the
explosion with evidence associated with the defendants.

"As indicated, Williams told us that the crime scene was consistent
with the use of an ammonium nitrate dynamite, which could have had a
VOD in the range Williams estimated. The major components of ammonium
nitrate dynamite (ammonium nitrate and nitroglycerin) were found at
the crime scene. A dynamite wrapper was also found. Williams' report,
however, fails to address the possibility that the main charge consisted
of dynamite, which an objective report would explicitly have discussed.

"We conclude that Williams' categorical conclusion that the main charge
was ANFO was not scientifically justified and was based on improper
grounds.

And, In Section G of the same OIG report:

(1) "Further, we conclude that Martz improperly deviated from the
explosives residue protocol in his examination of some specimens".

(2) Further on in the report is the statement by Agent Williams and his
methodology to determine what kind of explosive was used: "...Williams'
concluded that the main explosive used at OKC was ANFO. He acknowledged
that he reached this conclusion, in part, because Terry Nichols, one
of the defendants in the case, purchased ammonia nitrate and diesel
oil prior to the bombing. Without the evidence of these purchases,
Williams admitted he would have been unable to conclude that ANFO was
used. Indeed, Williams stated that based on the post-blast scene alone,
it could have been dynamite; I'm suggesting that there could have been
other things. We concluded that it was inappropriate for Williams to
render a categorical opinion in his report that the main charge was
ANFO."

In McVeigh's Second Trial you will read about several other cases where
corrupt FBI lab agents skewed the evidence and sent innocent Americans
to prison for as long as 30 years. During the trial, the government's
attorney did everything he could to shore up the gross incompetence
of the FBI lab in Washington, DC. But, if you carefully read the OIG
report, you can come to no other conclusion except that the government
had no scientific case to support their weapons of mass destruction
inside the Ryder truck theory.

Richard Williams worked in the building for GSA. From April 17 - 19,
1995, in his comings and going to and from work, he never saw McVeigh
or the yellow Marquis. He never saw a yellow Ryder truck. However, on
cross, he did provide some interesting information. The government
contended that the yellow Ryder truck contained 13 huge, plastic
containers, possibly blue in color, which contained the ingredients for
a bomb.

Under cross examination, Williams testified that GSA had purchased
approximately 80 blue plastic trash cans. These cans are the same size
and color as the ones alleged to have contained the weapons of mass
destruction inside the Ryder Truck. Roughly 80 containers of the same
size and color were in and around the building on April 19, 1995 prior
to 9:00 am that morning.

This testimony by Mr. Williams (no relation to agent Williams at the
FBI lab in DC) is so important. These blue plastic trash cans were all
around that building. Allegedly, this 20' yellow Ryder truck had 13 of
the same kind of barrels packed inside carrying the ingredients for
the bomb. The government has assumed they were blue because the only
evidence they examined at their lab in Washington, DC for this bombing:
two pieces of plastic, blue and white. Now, which pieces of plastic were
the compromised FBI lab boys examining - the ones already in and around
the Murrah Building or the ones alleged to have been in the Ryder truck?

I found it astounding that there were so few pieces of forensic evidence
studied by the FBI's crime lab considering the size of the crime scene.
But, you have all these blue plastic containers blown to bits because
of the explosion that were right at the crime scene. We have a load of
nothing to prove there were any inside the Ryder truck parked outside.

The infamous crater

Contrary to all the publicity and hype, there was no "huge crater" made
by the Ryder Truck in front of the building. There was a "pit" area, but
that was made by the charges going off inside the building.

Below are two photographs that clearly show there was no "huge crater"
immediately following the bombing. The first one below was removed from
after McVeigh's Second Trial was posted to my web site. All the other
crime scene photos that were on the URL above have now been removed.
Why?

.DS
.\"_ format file(page) h w pos off flags label
.BG - graham_photo5b.jpg 2.5i 5.0i l 0.0i alo
.DE

The second photo appeared in the Denver Post the day following the
bombing:

.DS
.\"_ format file(page) h w pos off flags label
.BG - graham_photo5c.jpg 2.5i 5.0i l 0.0i alo
.DE

As anyone with two working eyes can see, the building was blown from the
inside out.

Experts not on the government payroll or under government contract
receiving federal money

The vast majority of the American people have never seen these quotes
before, but they are important because each of these individuals are
certified experts in their field. Why were none of them allowed to
testify at McVeigh's trial in Denver?

Dr. Samuel Cohen, inventor of the neutron bomb and one of the last
remaining scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project and has spent
more than 50 years involved in scientific work stated: "I believe that
demolition charges in the building placed inside at certain key concrete
columns did the primary damage to the Murrah Federal Building." (June
1995) "It would have been absolutely impossible and against the laws of
nature for a truck full of fertilizer and fuel oil, no matter how much
was used --to bring the building down." Contacted shortly after the
third anniversary of the bombing, Dr. Cohen stated, "I have not been
following the case closely, but it seems to me that the evidence has
gotten much stronger in favor of internal charges, while the ammonium
nitrate bomb theory has fallen apart."

Alvin Norberg is another expert in the field of explosives, construction
and demolition. I gave a speech for the California Rifle & Pistol
Association on June 11, 2001, the day McVeigh was executed and saw Mr.
Norberg there. We had a discussion about the bombing and he told me
to stay on the bombs in the building, they were the key. Norberg is a
licensed professional engineer in Auburn, California with over 50 years
of engineering experience on over 5,000 construction projects, writes
that evidence from the ETS data:

"...verifies that the severe structural damage to the Murrah Building
was not caused by a truck bomb outside the building," and that "the
collapse of the Murrah Federal Building was the result of 'mechanically
coupled devices' (bombs) placed locally within the structure adjacent to
the critical columns."

Mike Smith, a civil engineer in Cartersville, Georgia, commissioned to
review the Eglin Blast Effects Study, states:

"The results of the Blast Effect Test One on the Eglin Test Structure
present strong evidence that a single Ammonium Nitrate and Fuel Oil
device of approximately 4800 lbs. placed inside a truck could not have
caused the damage to the Murrah federal Building experienced on April
19, 1995.

"Even assuming that the building had structural deficiencies and that
the ANFO device was constructed with racing fuel, the air-coupled blast
produced from this 4800 lb. device would not have damaged the columns
and beams of the Murrah Building enough to produce a catastrophic
failure. "

Alexander B. Magnus, P.E., M.E. in letter to Warden Lappin at the
Federal Penitentiary, Terra Haute, IN on June 10, 2001:

"Moreover, although a large number of top technical experts would have
willingly testified at the McVeigh trial that the prosecutions version
of the single truck bomb theory was physically impossible, these experts
were never permitted to present such testimony. As a result, Timothy
McVeigh was "convicted" of committing a physical impossibility.

"Consequently, I urge you not to proceed with the execution of Timothy
McVeigh since critical exculpatory expert testimony was not presented
to the McVeigh jury for consideration. The execution of Timothy McVeigh
will constitute additional destruction of "evidence."

Conclusion

Allegedly McVeigh confessed to this crime. What would make him do such a
thing? Was he even the 'real' Timothy McVeigh that morning in OKC :

.DS
.\"_ format file(page) h w pos off flags label
.BG - graham_newsclip_s1.jpg 3.5i 5.0i l 0.0i alo
.DE

The agent on the right nose to nose with the McVeigh photo shows a
remarkable resemblance. Why are the other two ATF agents in the photo
identified, but the one so closely resembling McVeigh unnamed?

McVeigh's so called confession leaves a lot to be desired in my mind
and I refer to the big brouhaha over the book, American Terrorist. This
highly touted book conveniently came out right before McVeigh's first
scheduled execution. Let me give you a little reality check about the
author Dan Herbeck. He called my dear friend, Gen. Ben Partin after the
book had obviously gone to press and asked Ben some questions. When Ben
began explaining the scientific impossibility of a "crude truck bomb"
destroying the Murrah Building, Herbeck became testy on the phone and
said he didn't want to discuss "that."

He also admitted to Ben that he never personally interviewed McVeigh.
Folks might remember seeing both Herbeck and his sidekick, Lou Michel,
all over the talk show circuit state that they had spent 75 hours with
McVeigh at the prison in Terra Haute. It appears this is a bald faced
lie, so how much credence can you put in their book? I place none.
Herbeck and Michel claim in their book that the "truck bomb" was 7,000#.
Really? The FBI's OIG (Office of the Inspector General) can't even tell
you the correct amount, so where did these two "journalists" come up
with that figure? From McVeigh? Sure and they should be kissing the
blarney stone sometime soon.

The information in this two part article is just the tip of the iceberg.
I encourage everyone to read McVeigh's Second Trial. When you're
finished reading this 228-page compilation of fact upon fact upon fact,
not only is there more than reasonable doubt regarding Mr. McVeigh's
role in this horrendous act of murder, there can be no other conclusion
that the Murrah Building was not destroyed by any Ryder truck full of
home made bombs.

If the Murrah Building was not destroyed by the weapons of mass
destruction Ryder truck bomb theory used to execute Timothy McVeigh
and sent Nichols to prison for life, then how could either McVeigh or
Nichols be found guilty of using weapons of mass destruction?

Why was McVeigh arraigned at Tinker AFB instead of a federal court
house? He was a civilian at the time.

Where are the undetonated bombs found inside the building? There is too
much evidence to support this statement, so where are the bombs?

A thousand unanswered questions and those who committed this atrocity
still run free. Sadly, most Americans don't care. It was a long time
ago and, besides, McVeigh's execution and Nichols' conviction brought
"closure" to the nation.

Not for me it didn't.


